---
Order: 4
Area: extensionapi
TOCTitle: Activation Events
ContentId: C83BB647-A37E-45CE-BA4C-837B397C2ABE
PageTitle: Visual Studio Code Activation Events - package.json
DateApproved: 4/14/2016
MetaDescription: To support lazy activation of Visual Studio Code extensions (plug-ins), your extension controls when it should be loaded through a set of activation events in the package.json extension manifest file. 
---

# Activation Events - package.json

Extensions are activated lazily in VS Code.  As a result you need to provide VS Code with context as to when your extension should be activated.  We support the following activation events:

* [`onLanguage:${language}`](/md/扩展API/激活事件.md#activationeventsonlanguage)
* [`onCommand:${command}`](/md/扩展API/激活事件.md#activationeventsoncommand)
* [`workspaceContains:${toplevelfilename}`](/md/扩展API/激活事件.md#activationeventsworkspacecontains)
* [`*`](/md/扩展API/激活事件.md#activationevents)

We also provide an overview of the [`package.json` extension manifest](/md/扩展API/扩展manifest文件.md) and the minimum required fields.  

## `activationEvents.onLanguage`

This activation event is emitted and interested extensions will be activated whenever a file that resolves to a certain language gets opened.

```json
...
"activationEvents": [
	"onLanguage:python"
]
...
```

## `activationEvents.onCommand`

This activation event is emitted and interested extensions will be activated whenever a command is being invoked:

```json
...
"activationEvents": [
	"onCommand:extension.sayHello"
]
...
```

## `activationEvents.workspaceContains`

This activation event is emitted and interested extensions will be activated whenever a folder is opened and the folder contains a top-level file.

```json
...
"activationEvents": [
	"workspaceContains:.editorconfig"
]
...
```

## `activationEvents.*`

This activation event is emitted and interested extensions will be activated whenever VS Code starts up. To ensure a great end user experience, please use this activation event in your extension only when no other activation events combination works in your use-case.

```json
...
"activationEvents": [
	"*"
]
...
```

> **Note:** An extension can listen to multiple activation events, and that is preferable to listening to `"*"`.

> **Note:** An extension **must** export an `activate()` function from its main module and it will be invoked **only once** by VS Code when any of the specified activation events is emitted. Also, an extension **should** export a `deactivate()` function from its main module to perform cleanup tasks on VS Code shutdown.

## Next Steps
To learn more about VS Code extensibility model, try these topic:

* [Extension Manifest File](/md/扩展API/扩展manifest文件.md) - VS Code package.json extension manifest file reference
* [Contribution Points](/md/扩展API/扩展点.md) - VS Code contribution points reference

## Common Questions

Nothing yet

 
